When Tom Moyane, the increasingly paranoid SA Revenue Services (Sars) commissioner, gave an emotional press conference last week about the implosion of his relationship with finance minister Pravin Gordhan, it was hard to feel too much sympathy for him.This followed the leak of letters between him and Gordhan, over the course of a year, laying bare just how toxic the relationship had become.In the letters, Moyane claimed Gordhan &ldquo;shout(s) at me in a very disrespectful and humiliating manner&rdquo;, he accused the minister of &ldquo;systematically orchestrating a vigorous campaign&rdquo; against him and says he &ldquo;will not tolerate being lectured and persecuted, as if I was a school boy&rdquo;.Elsewhere, Moyane argued that Gordhan has no right to alter salaries or bonuses for Sars staff as I am the only accounting authority for Sars .Gordhan, he said, has no right to intervene in Sars affairs. And, after the most recent exchange on February 2, Moyane demanded Gordhan apologise, in writing, within 10 days.Presumably he s still waiting.After the letters were published in the Mail &amp; Guardian, Moyane convened a press conference where he seemed to want to elicit sympathy. He even promised to be more open with the media.Given his haughty and dismissive attitude to anyone questioning him, however, this seems unlikely. If anything, Moyane has created a bubble around himself that suggests he believes he is untouchable and unaccountable to anyone &mdash; be it the public who pay his salary, or Gordhan.Some worrying inconsistencies in his behaviour attest to this. Two years ago, Moyane was quick to seize on claims of a &ldquo;rogue unit&rdquo; to purge his senior staff. But last year, when confronted with a report from the Financial Intelligence Centre detailing &ldquo;suspicious and unusual&rdquo; deposits of R1.2m into the bank account of his deputy, Jonas Makwakwa, Moyane did nothing for months.What Moyane did do, apparently, was hand that report directly to Makwakwa himself. In October, the Financial Mail asked Sars to address whether Moyane broke the law when he did that.After all, the Financial Intelligence Centre Act says: &ldquo;No person who knows that a report has been made ... [may disclose] any information regarding the contents or suspected contents of any such report to any person, including the person in respect of whom the report [is] made.&rdquo;Five months later, we&rsquo;re still waiting for a reply. Clearly it was an inconvenient question.Unfortunately, this isn&rsquo;t unusual: Moyane&rsquo;s high-handed approach results in Sars regularly ignoring questions it doesn&rsquo;t like. The concept of accountability, it would seem, doesn&rsquo;t sit easily in Moyane&rsquo;s revenue collection agency.Now, it might be tempting to see this as just a spat between two government officials. But it s much more than that.The glaring fact, laid bare in last week s budget, is that Sars collected R30.4bn less than was expected. This is why Gordhan had to scratch through the bottom drawers for extra cash. This is partly why we had a hike in the top marginal tax rate to 45% for anyone earning above R1.5m and a 39c hike in the cost of fuel.Competence at Sars matters to everyone. This is why, when Sars is losing competent officials who know how to collect tax, it must be subject to oversight from the government department that needs that money to run the country.If Moyane is unwilling to accept that, he should go. And President Jacob Zuma can illustrate that his talk about supporting the finance minister isn t just lip service by making that happen.