It&rsquo;s the time of the pop-up shop. Rent space for a day or a few months, create some buzz on social media, get a brand to partner with you and voila! You have a vodka garden bar sponsored by Belvedere or a quirky food bar with Flora margarine.The idea of pop-up retail isn&rsquo;t new. It began in the 1990s and spread across Tokyo, London, Los Angeles and New York City. Because of exorbitant rental costs, retailers were unable to keep long-term leases. So they would rent space for three months to test out a product in a new market or get rid of their stock. The concept has evolved to dynamic brand installations and pop-up bars: hybrids between clubs and restaurants.They&rsquo;re all around Johannesburg, from The Union Bar which has hopped from Melrose Arch to Illovo and back again to the Play with Oreo and Magnum pop-ups that have appeared in Rosebank and the popular Saturday Neighbourgoods Market in Braamfontein.Union Bar owner Joshua Shifrin wants brands to realise that pop-up stores are just another channel for marketing.&ldquo;Advertising and marketing preaches at people,&rdquo; he says. &ldquo;Pop-ups involve people in an experience. It&rsquo;s like walking into a logo, it&rsquo;s a very immersive experience.&rdquo;The Union Bar started in 2012 in Melrose Arch and has been reincarnated in Illovo, in Sandton Square and in a shipping container in Rosebank.&ldquo;Landlords weren&rsquo;t interested at first because what we were doing was not normal.&rdquo; It opens for eight to 12 weeks at a different venue with a different theme and a unique signature cocktail menu.&ldquo;There&rsquo;s an urgency that pop-up creates and people latch onto it,&rdquo; he says.The masterminds behind the roving Union Bar influenced Wine Not, a monthly pop-up in a fixed location in Kramerville. It began as a marketing stunt for events company BlackJack. The idea was to create a nontraditional wine event.Owner Gavin Hunter says: &ldquo;The first three months were a loss. We put in money and weren&rsquo;t getting anything out. We didn&rsquo;t think we&rsquo;d go for this long.&rdquo;The bar pops up on the last Friday of every month and kicks off the evening with music and sundowners at 4pm. At 7pm, a popular Johannesburg band such as Shortstraw comes on and by 9pm a host of DJs arrive.Union Bar and Wine Not are expanding their territory, from new bars in Cape Town and Durban to talk of a wine festival on the roof of Sandton City. The bar does the marketing for itself, said Shifrin.Landlords are slowly catching on. With the economy still struggling to recover and inflation rates skyrocketing in the past year, there s a lot of vacancy in retail. Pop-up stores generate revenue in empty spaces and create foot traffic.From the Magnum Store to Play with Oreo and the Flora Blend Bar to retailers like Shesha looking to shed extra stock, Rosebank is collaborating with Mbongiworks and becoming a pop-up store hub.The Play with Oreo pop-up store in 2015 was based on a brief Oreo sent out to all their territories. Mbongiworks created a space with a sushi conveyor belt with gourmet Oreo treats, a photo booth and a station to design a cookie. They out-trended every other territory and set the tone for pop-up stores in Johannesburg.Rob Muirhead, a director of Mbongiworks, says: &ldquo;You&rsquo;ve got to create a cool-enough space, where people want to come and hang out, and that you can leverage into PR.&rdquo;Rosebank&rsquo;s next pop-up was the Magnum Store. It was so successful, they repeated it. &ldquo;When you&rsquo;re eating it [the ice cream], you usually buy it at a garage but the brand is luxurious and the pop-up shop places you in that environment,&rdquo; says Muirhead.According to TimesLive, sales grew by 12% each week with revenue at about R40,000 a day while Magnum increased its digital impact and received 25% more Twitter followers. They create a viral effect. Even if you just hear about it, it has an impact on the brand sales and equity. There s a significant sales up-tick with the pop-up store. While they may work on a temporary business model, the pop-up store is certainly here to stay.