Sol Kerzner, the man who built SA&rsquo;s most successful hotel group, is putting bricks on mortar again, only this time it&rsquo;s not hotels, but residential property.The 81-year old "Sun King", best known for hotels and resorts around the world &mdash; including building Sun City in Pilanesberg in the 1980s and the US$1.5bn Atlantis in the Bahamas in the mid-1990s, as well as the One&amp;Only chain &mdash; is developing 44 top-end homes on part of his sprawling estate in Leeukoppie.Kerzner bought the 10ha property, nestled between Hout Bay and Llandudno, south of Cape Town, in 1983 for R2.25m. Today, 34 years later, that amount would barely buy a one-bedroom apartment in Sea Point, just 10km down the road.In an interview with the Financial Mail, Kerzner detailed why he&rsquo;s now going into the housing business."It&rsquo;s been a home, a place that I shared with my family and friends since 1983. I&rsquo;ve loved and enjoyed it. Probably because I&rsquo;m no longer involved in the business [of hotels] I thought it would be fun and a nice experience to take a small portion of that and do some housing," says Kerzner.Today, Kerzner doesn t spend much time in SA. Most of the year he lives in London, but he comes to Leeukoppie several months a year, often with family and friends.The social set know of Leeukoppie as the destination for a famous annual New Year s Eve bash, which has attracted guests like actor Michael Douglas. Others who ve spent time at Kerzner s estate include the late Nelson Mandela and Robert de Niro.There was speculation that singer Michael Jackson wanted to buy the estate, but Kerzner says this is not the case. "Michael Jackson was an old friend and didn t stay at Leeukoppie, but with us in the South of France."Kerzner says that despite the development, there s no plans to shelve the New Year s party tradition.He is doing the project with his eldest daughter, Andrea, who will run the overall planning and work with architects and designers. "I m letting her lead the team," says Kerzner.Seven architectural firms will be involved. They include Dennis Fabian, "who s been the architect for everything we ve done at Leeukoppie" as well as Stefan Antoni from the firm ARRCC, Sean Mahoney from studioMAS, Jonathan Jacobs from Metropolis, Sally Tsiliyiannis from Gapp, Ian Gray from Craft of Architecture and Antonio Zaninovic.Meetings have already started and the plans are being developed. The plan will included a communal gym and a clubhouse to host large dinner parties using hospitality services such as a Kerzner-trained chef."I don t want this to look like a typical development. I want each home to be individual. On the other hand, we have some sort of consistency of concept," Kerzner says.Andrea Kerzner, speaking to the Financial Mail, says it was natural for her to follow in her father s footsteps. "Development is in our blood. We grew up on building sites we re interested in it. It s so exciting to work with him and there s more to learn."Unlike her father s strict adherence to corporate profits, Andrea founded a nonprofit organisation called Lalela during the 2010 Fifa World Cup to provide "educational arts" to young South Africans. It now engages 4,000 of them every week.Speaking of the estate, Andrea says the average house will be between 350m and 550m , and ecofriendly.Andrea, who has helped manage her family s investments, joined the Kerzner International Board after her brother Butch, who was heavily involved in Kerzner s hotel business, died in a helicopter accident in 2006."Residents will be using the services our home uses. We will be able to arrange airport transfers, grocery deliveries, housekeeping services and catering. Residents will also have access to riding lessons from our stables," she says.Construction of the houses will begin next February.