Nedbank CEO Mike Brown seems remarkably relaxed about losing his controlling shareholder, Old Mutual, in the current round of corporate restructuring.Old Mutual has been Nedbank&rsquo;s controlling shareholder for more than 30 years."We will certainly incur some corporate finance costs," he says. "But there will be no impact on our operations: we run banking systems and they run insurance systems. It is not as if we had been bought by a global bank such as Standard Chartered or HSBC and then sold, in which case there would have been a lot of unscrambling."Old Mutual SA will retain a holding of about 20% to cement its commercial relationship and make it difficult for another banking group to take control.But first an SA holding company must be listed with two main assets: Nedbank and Old Mutual Emerging Markets.Old Mutual has been a strong supporter of Nedbank&rsquo;s purchase of a 20% holding in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated as the springboard into West Africa &mdash; not least as Old Mutual has bought some insurance licences from Ecobank.Unfortunately Nedbank&rsquo;s profits were hurt by Ecobank&rsquo;s R676m loss in the first quarter of 2016. This was because of a R1bn impairment on underperforming assets.Ecobank was hit by the poor economy in oil exporters such as Angola and in its largest market, Nigeria. This was compounded by currency weakness and foreign currency shortages.Brown says that, even without control, Nedbank has enough influence on the Ecobank board and management.The new Ecobank management has refocused on client centricity, greater digitisation and building a better risk and compliance structure &mdash; all areas in which Nedbank has gone through its own growing pains.In the remaining three quarters of the year Ecobank&rsquo;s contribution was a decent R550m.Nedbank&rsquo;s own banking operations had a strong year, with their headline earnings up 16.2% to R11.8bn.The key ratios went in the right direction. For instance, the net interest margin was up from 3.3% to 3.41% and the credit loss ratio down from 0.77% to 0.68%. Brown says this was influenced by Nedbank&rsquo;s asset mix. Just 32% of earnings come from the retail and business bank.He says Nedbank has a 14.4% share of home loans, much lower than its competitors, but only because it prefers to focus on commercial mortgages, where it has a 40.8% share. Brown specialised in this sector before moving to Nedbank&rsquo;s executive suite.Nedbank is also fourth in credit cards, with a 13.7% share, but a close second in motor finance, with 27.7%. It has been gaining market share over the past four years while market leader WesBank has shed it.Brown says a big limitation on Nedbank&rsquo;s retail business is its low share of customers who have their main account at the bank, which is no more than 11%. Almost two-thirds of clients do not have their main accounts with the bank but have gone to Nedbank for products such as home loans, cards and motor finance anyway.The low level of current and savings accounts is a hangover from the days of former Nedbank CEO Richard Laubscher, who wanted to concentrate on the top end of the market.Nonetheless, retail and business banking achieved a jump in return on equity from 16.6% to 18.9% it was as low as 13% in 2013.Corporate &amp; investment banking (CIB), which accounts for 53% of group earnings, has benefited from the merger of the corporate and capital operations. CIB has deliberately reduced its exposure to stressed sectors, such as mining, new retailers, oil and gas, agriculture and steel, which now make up barely 5% of the book.Perhaps its most high-profile work was in putting together "an integrated bespoke solution" for the R10bn MTN Zakhele Futhi BEE scheme. Fortunately this did not expose Nedbank to any of the cellphone group s operating problems in Nigeria. Ecobank was bad enough.One side of the business that could grow faster after the managed separation with Old Mutual is Nedbank Wealth.Can Old Mutual, with just a 20% holding, prevent Nedbank from expanding into complex life products? It already "manufactures" credit life. Nedbank might even go back into direct asset management, though it won t be ditching its current multiple manager range of unit trusts.Under the almost no-profile Nedbank Wealth CEO Iolanda Ruggiero, the business has a chunky 35% return on equity, but it makes up just 10% of headline earnings, well below its equivalent business at Absa.Nedbank still generates R400m in value of new life business, not far off some of the established life offices, and it wrote R1.1bn in short-term insurance.Nedbank was the Financial Mail s pick for Hot Stock in the banking sector earlier this year. And it still seems to be cruising.