African Empowerment Equity Investments (AEEI) &mdash; now in the throes of floating its food subsidiary Premier Fishing on the JSE &mdash; is readying its technology hub for a separate listing too.Documents seen by the Financial Mail show that AEEI&rsquo;s TSL division, which houses operations in technology and telecoms, is consolidating its shareholder base in preparation for a listing. TSL has also proposed changing its name to Ayo Technology Solutions.The clue that suggests a JSE listing is pending lies in proposals to convert low-voting TSL N-shares into ordinary Ayo shares. The JSE frowns upon low-voting share structures, and only a few companies with N-share structures remain listed on the bourse.The owners of TSL N-shares are community shareholders who acquired shares in the old Sekunjalo Health in 1999, when there were plans to list this subsidiary separately. Sekunjalo Health never achieved levels of meaningful profitability, leaving the N-shareholders clutching worthless scrip.But some years ago AEEI&rsquo;s technology operations were transferred into the ailing Sekunjalo Health structure, which then became known as TSL. The dismantling of the structure will enable the N-shareholders &mdash; who initially acquired shares at 50c/share &mdash; to participate fully in Ayo. Audited financial statements seen by the Financial Mail suggest Ayo carries considerably more value than the initial 50c/share paid for the Sekunjalo Health N-shares.The revised ownership structure will result in AEEI owning 84% of Ayo. Sekunjalo Capital, controlled by media magnate Iqbal Surv&eacute;, will retain 9.95%. The balance will be held by the old Sekunjalo Health N-shareholders.AEEI CEO Khalid Abdulla was reluctant to be drawn on a possible listing date for Ayo.A circular sent to shareholders notes that Ayo has a strategy to acquire companies and list on the JSE within three to five years.Abdulla conceded the listing may transpire sooner, perhaps in the next 18 months to two years.Market watchers believe Ayo&rsquo;s listing date will be informed by AEEI&rsquo;s success in floating Premier Fishing. At the time of writing Premier Fishing was hosting road shows with prospective investors.Ayo, which is centred on record keeping specialist Health System Technologies (HST), has been a consistent performer. In the year to end-August 2016, revenue of R215m yielded an operating profit of R27.4m, meaning a solid operating margin of nearly 13%.