We question Richard Mukheibir, MD of Cash Converters.What s your most treasured possession?A nine-weight G Loomis fly rod.What is the one investment you wish you had made, or made earlier?Brought Weber braais to SA in the early 1980s. I thought they would never work in SA when I saw them in the US during an exchange. How wrong was I!Which living person do you&nbsp;most admire?Adam Habib, vice-chancellor&nbsp;of Wits.Which phrase or word do you&nbsp;most overuse?"It is what it is."Tell us about a hidden gem in SA that not many people know about.Wallovale Vineyards in the Elgin Valley, Western Cape. Paul and Nicky Wallace make some&nbsp;of the best Malbec in SA. Great place to overnight!What s your biggest indulgence?Fly fishing.When and where are or were you happiest?In nature, with my family.What was your first job?Barman at the Arniston Hotel in the Western Cape, during university holidays.Who is your favourite hero of fiction?Chickenman. "He s everywhere."What talent would you most&nbsp;like to have?To be able to speed read.What is your biggest regret?Taking too little business risk.What s the worst airport you ve been in?BeirutIs there such a thing as "enough money" and, if so, how much is it?Yes, if you have enough to do what you want.What are you reading at the moment? What s the one book everyone should read before they die?My Own Liberator by Dikgang Moseneke and Legacy by James Kerr. Drunk Tank Pink by Adam Alter, Build Great Brands by John Cinquina and How SA Works by Jeffrey Herbst.How do you deal with stress? What are your top tips for handling stress?Deal with the issue as soon&nbsp;as possible, the most material, difficult and unpleasant first.What or who is the greatest love&nbsp;of your life?My wife and children.Nominate your 8th wonder of the world.Sneeuberg mountain range, Karoo, Eastern Cape. For silence and solitude.What s the most interesting thing about you that people don t know?My lineage in small business development dates back more than a century to my grandfather who founded Mukheibir Brothers in Barkly East in 1897. The store is still trading today, over 120 years later and run by cousins.