Something went horribly wrong at the SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) in 2015. At some stage, a group of consultants, who had been appointed irregularly by social development minister Bathabile Dlamini two years earlier, hijacked plans the agency had been working on to take over social grant distributions from Cash Paymaster Services (CPS).Fast forward to the present. The very real risk of chaotic violence in the first weekend of April has its origins in that 2015 hijacking by a group known to have the backing of Dlamini and assumed to have the backing of President Jacob Zuma.Over the coming months the battle to control the process by which R135bn/year is distributed to about 11m social grant recipients will be a proxy for the battle playing out on the wider political stage.Sassa executives who had been working on the in-house plan were exhilarated by the recent dramatic ruling from the constitutional court. After the court s stern rebuke of Dlamini it seemed inevitable the interministerial committee, headed by Jeff Radebe, would drive the process towards Sassa s plans to take the process in-house.Then came the dramatic news that Zuma had appointed himself head of the committee. It was like a second hijacking; the consultants plan was back in the ascendancy.The consultants include Patrick Monyeki, former home affairs chief director of IT; attorney Tim Sukazi; and Tankiso Parkies. They are working on a distribution system that would essentially mimic the CPS system."It would be the CPS of tomorrow," says a Sassa executive wearily, hinting at the likelihood that the architects of CPS 2.0 would be targeting the multibillion-rand profit potential that had drawn Net1 s Serge Belamant to the contract.Gone would be any chance of a more ambitious plan for government to take distribution in-house with the support of all the major banks and the SA Post Office. The post office was paying out 1.5m grants a month until Sassa was forced to block it in terms of the CPS contract.There are 30,000 ATMs scattered across the country and 2,000 post offices. This is a better solution than any offered by a single private-sector entity, says a treasury official.It sounds impressive, but most of these ATMs and post offices are in urban areas. About 40% of recipients pick up their cash at one of the 9,000 CPS pay points that emerge in deep rural locations every month. The cost of pay-point distribution is estimated to be more than twice the R16 per month per recipient CPS is paid. It is cross-subsidised by the millions paid directly into a bank account at a cost of little more than 50c.Replicating the pay points, which use off-line technology, is the biggest challenge for whoever wins the Sassa battle. The hope is that over time, through urbanisation and enticement, the 40% will be reduced to 20%.One such enticement will be clear to recipients in the first week of April. The 60% who use banks and merchants will be able to access their money from Saturday April 1. The other 40% will have to wait until Monday April 3 to pick up their cash from the pay points.Over the longer term, the Sassa plan to create a special bank account allowing four free ATM withdrawals a month was expected to lift the 60% figure. Millions of grant recipients are happy to pay ATM charges due to the convenience. The in-house solution with the special bank account would involve Sassa paying the banks (including Postbank) to cover limited ATM use.The beginnings of the Sassa in-house plan had been put in place even before CPS was controversially awarded the contract in 2012."We were already working towards a system in 2011," a Sassa executive told the Financial Mail. "The intention was always to bring the payments in-house."But it s difficult to explain why there was no evident sense of urgency from Sassa or the department about the looming end-March deadline. The consultants behind CPS 2.0 freely admitted they would not be ready to roll out their distribution system until 2020, so there was no chance of them stepping into the breach.The Sassa team seems to have been paralysed by the Dlamini-aligned hijackers. (To their credit, some members did make a few valiant bids to break free and get help at one or other of the parliamentary hearings called to deal with the mounting crisis.)It may be that Dlamini assumed the prospect of chaos would allow her to rollover the CPS contract, at whatever cost, until her consultants were ready to take over. A strong civil society, a powerful constitutional court and a core of determined MPs (including ANC members) have thwarted her plan. Or they may have just interrupted it. The battle is still being waged.