Zeenat Moorad chats to Jesper Gustafsson, director of international markets at Hugo Boss. The German brand recently relaunched the Hugo Boss store at the V&amp;A Waterfront, Cape Town.What are the key fabrics to stick to when buying a suit?During wintertime heavy and rich-looking fabrics like a classic check, herringbone, pinstripe or plain fabrics with a decent structure are a good choice. Mixed with qualities such as cashmere, alpaca and silk, this gives the suit a favourable character. When it comes to colours, the preferable ones are charcoal, bordeaux, navy and black. For summer one can go more colourful, playing with seasonal colours and light fabrics such as linen, cotton, silk, as well as fine Italian wool.For gents, what would you recommend, getting a two or three-piece suit?For someone who does not wear suits on a regular basis it is preferable to invest in a three-piece, due to its versatility. As it can be worn in various seasons, it is a great choice for several occasions, such as weddings or on the daily job. The three-piece can be also worn casually by using only the blazer with blue jeans, a white shirt and modern sneakers.What are the main suiting trends for 2017/2018?Looking at the fashion scene, what is seen on the streets and what we presented in New York for our Boss Menswear Fall/Winter 2017 collection, the trend goes slightly wider and classics are coming back. People wear wide cropped trousers or tapered fits combined with double-breasted jackets and peak lapels. The emphasis is also more on statement pieces such as distinctive outerwear with big pockets, drawstring hoods and leather buckles ultimately showing a bold, utilitarian attitude.When it comes to product development, what are some of Boss s inspirations?For the Fall/Winter 2017 collection, the main inspiration was the global traveller, approached in a new way and seen as an explorer and adventurer: those who voyage across the world and rely on performance and functionality. Therefore there s a lot of utility and performance built into every piece, combining the heavyweight fabrics with precise cuts, tailoring and a love for detail the key foundations of Boss Menswear.You recently opened a new store in SA. What s your take on luxury goods demand in the country, as most people who can afford high-end goods tend to be well travelled?SA is an emerging market when it comes to high-end premium goods. As you mentioned, South Africans are well-travelled. However, a place such as Cape Town, where we recently opened a new Boss store, is very international and welcomes many tourists from all over the world, to whom we also want to offer the newest collections and represent the brand in the same way it is being presented in Paris or New York.The suiting category has, over the past few years, become more crowded, particularly with innovative entrants like Suitsupply and Thomas Pink what fundamentals does Hugo Boss rely on to differentiate itself and grow its customer base?We are very customer-focused and want to provide them with only the best. Our collections offer a full range of modern business apparel, exclusive sportswear and glamorous evening looks all with an incomparable fit along with high-quality materials. Every season the pieces are updated with excellent design and rich detailing paired with modern influences and patterns, giving the signature Boss look a timeless elegance that will suit any occasion.