On Wednesday, in a dramatic turn of events, Parliament&rsquo;s portfolio committee on transport called for an investigation into the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa&rsquo;s (Prasa) board, following a marathon meeting which exposed infighting at the helm of the troubled agency. This came after Transport Minister Dipuo Peters told the committee, through the department&rsquo;s acting director-general Mathabatha Mokonyama, that the Prasa board would be dissolved.Sparks flew at a meeting of the portfolio committee on transport, resulting in the Prasa board being called to order for threatening to report the committee to Parliament&rsquo;s presiding officer.The meeting was a continuation from Tuesday where accusations flew between the board and former acting CEO Collins Letsoalo. At the centre of the war of words were his efforts to increase his annual salary by 350% to R5.9m, ostensibly because his predecessor, Lucky Montana, had received the same level of pay.As tempers flared on Tuesday, the committee accused the Prasa board of being corrupt after board members failed to answer questions over the debacle with Letsoalo, as well as about other governance failures at the agency. Prasa was adrift when Letsoalo assumed the helm; the board claimed that he dismissed employees outside of Prasa&rsquo;s own process and went to great lengths to try to raise his salary.Board member Tefetso Phitsane told the committee that Letsoalo&rsquo;s secondment to Prasa by the department of transport was not done in line with due process and that he acted unilaterally when working with employees and forensic firms probing contracts at the agency."The secondment was irregular. It was not done properly. We could not find the terms and conditions and it was done outside [of them]. I wanted the minister [of transport] to come to the meeting because I wanted her to regularise this matter and clarify how long Letsoalo was around for," said Phitsane said.Letsoalo, who was in the same meeting, told the portfolio committee that the board had conspired to remove him from his position of acting CEO from the time he go there, saying that the knives were out for him as his arrival rang changes for the board which had allowed former officials "to stop coming to work" and "take Prasa money to go to the Durban July"."I told the investigation firms to take what belongs to criminal matters and deal with it as a criminal matter. Take the civil matters and deal with them accordingly, and take the labour-related matters to me. They continue to look at criminal matters. Suddenly when I do that, I&rsquo;m being arrogant," said Letsoalo.Committee member and DA MP Manny De Freitas said the dissolution of the Prasa board gave the impression that Peters had chosen to dissolve the board in a bid to fix the mess caused by Letsoaolo&rsquo;s secondment and other ructions at Prasa.