We analyse Travis Robson, head of Institutional &amp; Premium Clients at IG.If someone came to you tomorrow with R100m to invest i just one company, which would it be?I would hope the individual had a long time horizon and already had a diversified portfolio elsewhere before putting R100m into one company. I would say Steinhoff. It s been a good investment for me. The group has grown from a furniture manufacturer in low-cost Eastern European countries to one of the leading furniture retailers and has a strong leadership team as well as a strong product value chain.Which talent would you most like to have?I would like to be able to read people s minds.What was your first job?Working as an assistant store manager for a clothing retailerWhat s your biggest regret?Not starting to invest earlier.What was your worst investment mistake?Listening to a fellow trader and selling EOH, as I had done really well on my investment.What s the best investment you ve ever made?In 2009 I invested in EOH at around R5.Apple or Samsung?Neither, but I prefer Android to Apple. I have an LG phone.If you found a lottery ticket tomorrow that had won US$100m, what would you do?Track down the person who owned the ticket and ask for a finder s fee. If that failed, I d donate to the charities that I support and then take a sabbatical around the world, investing time in myself to broaden my experiences and knowledge.What s your favourite song?I am very seasonal with music, so my favourite song changes often. However, any Greenday or Foo Fighters song.What is your greatest extravagance?My mountain biking and cycling hobby.Name a place you ve been to that lived up to the hype.In 2006 I went to Iceland, it has some of the most spectacular natural wonders on the planet. The Aurora Borealis is an incredible light show and there are a lot of geysers and underground springs. Icelanders are some of the nicest people you will ever meet. Nudity is a very normal thing in Iceland, Icelanders are very open to bathing naked in hot springs (never a bad thing).On what occasions do you lie?When I am trying to persuade my daughter that she does not need that toy or clothing item.If you could fix one thing in SA today, what would it be?I would put a stop to corruption and put that money towards improving the standard and accessibility of public education. Giving the youth access to quality education and training will help build SA.