The package of labour market reforms signed last week by all the social partners apart from Cosatu contains arguably more wins for the labour movement than it does for business. But this is the price business is willing to pay to reduce labour market tension.Certainly, the introduction of secret strike balloting, advisory arbitration and agreed standards of conduct during industrial action (including by the police and private security companies) could reduce the propensity for violence and the length of strikes.But the price tag for securing labour&rsquo;s co-operation is steep. The R20/hour (R3,500/month for a 40-hour week) national minimum wage (NMW) agreed to will raise wages across nearly half of SA&rsquo;s labour force.Many private economists consider this a disaster for growth and employment, warning that it may wipe out the last pockets of low-skilled, labour-intensive work in SA.Government, business, the community sector and two of the three labour federations represented at Nedlac signed the agreement in Cape Town on February 8, disregarding Cosatu&rsquo;s plea for more time to consult.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s a [shame that] Cosatu didn&rsquo;t sign, since we&rsquo;ve been negotiating for two years and there&rsquo;s an in-principle agreement,&rdquo; says Business Unity SA (Busa) CEO Tanya Cohen.Cosatu&rsquo;s intransigence is surprising, given that workers stand to gain so much from the agreement. Though the union wanted an NMW of R4,500/month, the final figure is a lot more than the R2,000/month business was comfortable with.The technical panel created by deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa to advise Nedlac on the NMW was heavily laden with poverty and development experts and skewed away from macroeconomists. It rejected research from the University of Cape Town and national treasury that the introduction of an NMW at R3,500/month would cause huge job losses. It felt that the assumptions underlying their models were too pessimistic.Federation of Unions of SA (Fedusa) general secretary Dennis George says it was the realisation that the NMW will mean a windfall of at least R1,000/month for the 4m people who earn R2,200-R2,500/month that resulted in Fedusa signing on the dotted line.&ldquo;We&rsquo;re not breaking our hearts,&rdquo; says George of Cosatu&rsquo;s failure to sign. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s always a level of brinkmanship. That government agreed to sign doesn&rsquo;t mean Nactu [the National Council of Trade Unions] and Fedusa threw Cosatu under the bus. We were mandated to sign.&ldquo;The people who&rsquo;re going to benefit from this aren&rsquo;t even Cosatu members,&rdquo; he claims, pointing out that, as most Cosatu members are relatively well-paid public service workers, many won&rsquo;t be affected by the NMW.&ldquo;They just want people and the media to think they&rsquo;re powerful,&rdquo; he adds. &ldquo;Well, they tried their luck; their luck didn&rsquo;t work. Whether they sign or not isn&rsquo;t our problem, it&rsquo;s their problem. It&rsquo;s going to be implemented anyway.&rdquo;Though labour might not have got everything it wanted, it did get the panel&rsquo;s recommendations tightened up considerably.For instance, business now has to be NMW compliant a year earlier than before, in May 2018 not July 2019. This will also include very small businesses, which the panel had wished to keep exempt until 2020, having noted that &ldquo;as a general principle smaller firms are less easily able to adjust to policy measures&rdquo;.Speaking to the Financial Mail when the panel s initial recommendations were made, panel chairman Prof Imraan Valodia of Wits University said the fears of those panellists who felt R20/hour was too high were assuaged by the accommodating transition arrangements and exemptions provided for, as well as the tiered wage levels proposed for domestic and farm workers.Importantly, he noted that employers would have until July 2019 to make the shift, and that by then the real value of the NMW would be lower (closer to R3,000/month) based on projected inflation.Well, no longer. The final agreement accepts the panel s recommendation that domestic and farm workers earn 75% and 90% respectively of the NMW, but now specifies that their wages be upped to 100% of the NMW within two years, pending research by the NMW commission.The final agreement also instructs the commission to introduce a medium-term aspirational target for the NMW something the panel expressly avoided doing.But business also scored some wins, including the provision that there not be an automatic, formulaic upward adjustment to the NMW each year. Instead, the commission must make an evidence-based decision after considering a host of factors, expressly including the probable impact on employment. Cosatu rejects this interpretation, however, saying the formulation may be ambiguous and confusing .Business also insisted on an efficient exemptions system which will by law have to process exemption applications in 30 days from firms that cannot afford to implement the NMW. There is an understanding that this system will be up and running three months before the NMW implementation date.Also, firms may be able to claim some form of incentive, probably similar to the employment tax incentive (youth wage subsidy), to curb NMW-related retrenchments.The efficiency of the exemption and incentive process will be critical to reducing the impact on employment. Overall we are very concerned about the impact of the NMW on business and employment, particularly [on] smaller employers and more fragile sectors as well as low-skilled and young workers, the majority of whom do not have access to employment in any form, says Cohen. However, we do think the agreement on the exemptions process, together with the commitment by government, supported by organised labour and the community sector, to explore top-up incentives ... will, to a large extent, mitigate job losses. Cosatu s position is that while the R20/hour is inadequate, it is a start that can be progressively improved upon. In the negotiations it has been seized with ensuring that provision is made for regular increases, which will raise the NMW level up to an aspirational target, and that workers are protected against wage erosion from employers who respond to the NMW by reducing working hours.Cosatu has said it didn t sign the deal because it needed to refer the whole package to its central executive committee for a mandate. It meets on February 27.Neil Coleman, Cosatu s representative in the NMW negotiations, adds that its reluctance to sign also stems from the fact that there are elements of the package that are either unresolved and have been deferred to future processes, or have been ambiguously formulated. These include, among other things: the issue of annual increases; how to deal with the minimum hours worked; the composition and decision-making processes of the NMW commission, the drafting of an enforcement strategy; and the inclusion of the expanded public works programme.On the latter point, Nedlac was presented with evidence that 300,000 jobs would be culled from the programme if it implemented an NMW of R20/hour. We need to ensure that these [outstanding issues] don t undermine what is already on the table, says Coleman, but he adds: We remain committed to finalising an NMW as soon as possible, and believe we can find ways of addressing these outstanding concerns. Cohen thinks that overall it s a sound package that takes into account the need for labour stability as well as fair wages, which are essential for a fair labour system .George is also hopeful, saying: We re confident that as relations between trade unions and business improve we ll see fewer strikes. 