To decide whether next week s parliamentary vote of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma should be by secret or open ballot, National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete needn t deliberate with herself for as long as she has. Her parameters are defined by the constitutional obligation to apply the test of rationality that she ll have to explain.But to the extent that she s also deliberating with the ANC, in her capacity as its national chair, both she and the ANC have a real difficulty. What kicks in is the Prevention &amp; Combating of Corrupt Activities Act, specifically at section 7, headed Offences in respect of corrupt activities relating to members of legislative authority .See this in the context of threats to ANC members of parliament that, should they vote with their consciences (as required by law) to support the no-confidence motion, they ll lose their jobs. If the threat is applied and perhaps even by having implied such a threat the ANC itself can be open to prosecution under the act. Similarly liable to prosecution would be individual members who allow the threat, real or perceived, to dictate the way they vote.The relevant section of the act is explicit: Any member of the legislative authority who, directly or indirectly, accepts or agrees or offers to accept any gratification from any other person, whether for the benefit of himself or herself or for the benefit of another person; or Any person who, directly or indirectly, gives or agrees or offers to give any gratification to a member of the legislative authority, whether for the benefit of that member or for the benefit of any person ... in order to act, personally or by influencing another person so to act, in a manner that amounts to ... the abuse of a position of authority ... or designed to achieve an unjustified result ... is guilty of the offence of corrupt activities relating to members of the legislative authority.The provisions go further to include: Voting at any meeting of [the legislative authority of which he or she is a member]; Aiding or assisting in procuring or preventing the passing of any vote in [such authority]; Exerting any improper influence over the decision making of any person performing his or her function as a member of [such authority]; or Influencing in any way the election, designation or appointment of any functionary to be elected, designated or appointed by [such authority].Moreover, the definition of the gratification accepted, or agreed, or offered to accept, contains a wide variety of considerations. Among them: The avoidance of a loss, liability, penalty, forfeiture, punishment or other disadvantage; Any office, status, honour, employment, contract of employment or services; Any other service or favour or advantage of any description, including protection from any penalty ... from any action or proceedings of a disciplinary nature; Any right or privilege; Any real or pretended aid, vote, consent, influence or abstention from voting.Nothing could be clearer. Mbete and the party she chairs had better be forewarned. Otherwise, opposition parties and civil groupings have a plethora of grounds to lay charges. Arguably, by now they should already have moved. Greenblo is editorial director of Today s Trustee, a quarterly magazine mainly for principal officers and trustees of retirement funds